DISCUSS + OPINION
1. It is thought that using leisure time for activities to improve
the mind, such as reading and doing word puzzles, is
important. Other people feel that it is essential to have a rest
and relax during leisure time. Discuss both views and give
your opinion.
P1 + Eg: Turn the brain exercises to a hobby. Boost memory skills. Speed up the think abilities. Recent studies have shown that people whose frequently play math games such as ‘Sudoku’, tend to answer questions 28% faster than people whose do not practice any kind of math games.

P2 + Eg: Hard to think when the mind is tired. Body needs spare time to cool off and recover. A resource from the Biotechnological Institute of Moscow has shown that the brain loses less neurons when individuals are relaxing or leave of absence. 

Opinion: To summarize, using the spare times to maximize the power of the mind, has been helping many individuals in their professional lives.

2. Some people say that universities should be concerned with
educating people so that they will have more general
knowledge and be able to consider important matters from an
informed viewpoint. Other people say that universities should
simply train students to do the jobs required by society and not
concern themselves with broader issues. Discuss.
P1 + Eg: General knowledge helps people to adapt. Companies looking for employee with a broad base of skills and abilities. A recent survey of more than 10 companies located in the Silicon Valley indicated that the 90% of their workforce are able to work in more than 5 disciplines beside of their original graduation. 

P2 + Eg: Focus in one type of activity helps to improve the results. Time and money saving by targeting one area of knowledge. Recent studies have shown that employees whose are focus in one type of job are faster and more precise than people with a wide range of skills.

Opinion: To sum up, employees with a wide range of skills are more suitable to high salaries and can manage many problems at once.

3. Some people said the age of books is past. Information will
be presented by video, computers, televisions, films. Others
think the books and written words will be necessary for spreading
information and completing education. Discuss.
P1 + Eg: Videos are great to transmit information with rich details. Production of books has an environment impact. For example, videos tutorials speed up the process of obtain knowledge in 30%.

P2 + Eg: Reading books still helpful with cognitive stimulation. Books are vital to learn a new language. Improve the ability to analyze details. Recent research from Brain and Mind Institute of Californian indicates that people who read at least 1 book per month are more focus.

Opinion: In conclusion, the technology advances are helping books become obsolete.

4. Going abroad for higher education is an expensive prospect for
many people, possibly with some disadvantages, it is probably
better to go because of the new culture and language found
studying in a different country. To what extent do you agree or
disagree?
P1 + Eg: The best way to learn a language is by traveling to another country. Talk to native speakers speed up the learn curse of enquiry a new language skill. Recent studies from the Linguist Institute of Brazil have shown that by traveling to other countries students can improve their language skills by 56%.

P2 + Eg: Helps to expand the business network. Get insights that can help improve their profession. Recent studies have shown that 40% of young adults have a positive career start due the contributions that they provided to the company by leaving abroad.  


Opinion: I agree that studying abroad can benefit an individual in many aspects.


OPINION

5. Studying a local language in the host country is the ideal but not
the only way to learn the language. Do you agree with this
statement?
P1 + Eg: Regard to the technology advances, learn another language became easier. For examples, resources such as mobiles apps and sites, can help improve fast the individual language skills. 

P2 + Eg: Nowadays it is common to meet a foreign. Language courses become shorter and cheaper. In a recent survey, 60% of people who learned another language have accomplished it in their origin countries. 	

Opinion: To conclude, I disagree that the only way to learn another language is by leaving abroad.

6. The internet is dangerous because it has destroyed
communication between friends and family. Some people say that it
steals time from real life interactions. To what extent do you agree
or disagree?
P1 + Eg: Internet has expanded the communication among people. Real time communication. For example, in the old times people who were working abroad could see their families only after they back to their origin countries and now with the technologies, it can be accomplished in couple of minutes.

P2 + Eg: Parents can be more present in their children’s lives by working from home. Recent studies have shown that 30% of parents that has less problems with their children’s behavior have spent more time at home.  

Opinion: To sum up, the interaction among people are more frequent now them before. 

7. Subjects such as Art, Sport and Music are being dropped
from the school curriculum for subjects such as Information
Technology. Many people believe children suffer as a result of
these changes. To what extent would you support or reject the
idea of moving these subjects from school curriculum?
P1 + Eg: Sports help kids to socialize and respect each other. Music stimulate creativity. Has an impact in the character of the individual. Recent survey in more them 100 companies located in Bangladesh has shown that employees who has practiced some kind of sport in the school, have better communication skills than employees who has practiced no sports at all.

P2 + Eg: Information Technology is a specific subject. People who does not want to get into this, will be directly affected. One clear example is profession such as professors that need more training in the art and music disciplines to develop their creativity and conversation abilities.

Opinion: In conclusion, information technology can be presented in the education curriculum but cannot replace the subjects those already exist. 
 
8. It has been claimed that workers over 60 are not responsive
to rapidly changing ideas in the modern workplace, hence the
preference for younger workers. To what extent do you agree
or disagree?
P1 + Eg: Old worker have a solid mindset solid therefore it can influence the ability to change concepts quickly. For instance, elder employees have problems to adapt to new technologies.

P2 + Eg: The brain of a new young adult works as a sponge where can absolve whatever kind of information. Young employees are often ready to learn about new methods faster them elder individuals. Recent studies have shown that while young workers can improve their skills in 40% per year, old workers improve their abilities only 5 % a year.

Opinion: Young employees are more suitable to the kind of job where mind flexibility and adaptation are required.

PROBLEM + SOLUTION
9. People in all modern societies use alcohol, but today’s youth
are experimenting with both binge drinking and social drinking.
Some sociologists claim that parents and other members
of society often set a bad example. Discuss the causes and
some effects of widespread alcohol abuse by young people
in modern day society. Make any recommendations you feel
are necessary to help fight excessive drinking.
P1 + Eg: 
P2 + Eg:
10. We can get knowledge from news, but some people think we
cannot trust the journalist. Discuss, what you think are important
qualities a journalist should have?
P1 + Eg: Journalists nowadays create fake information to leverage audience. People can easily change contents from web pages. Recent studies have shown that 40% of blog posts are ungenuine. 

P2 + Eg: Professionals whose work in the media environment should do more researches before public a content. Recent studies have shown that news those mention more than five source of information, has 45% of chances to be true.
  
11. News editors decide what to broadcast on television and what to
print in newspapers. What factors do you think influence these
decisions? Do we become used to bad news? Would it be better if
more good news was reported? Discuss.
P1 + Eg: Mazimise audience rating in other to achieve more profits. Government intervention mostly of time pressure the way how the editors come up with certain news. On clear example is in China where the government censures almost all ways of communication therefore a journalist always has to be concerned about what and how they will publish an information.

P2 + Eg: Reporting good news should be more often acknowledge. Influence society in a positive way. Recent studies by the National Newspaper of Mumbai have shown that 40% of its audiences reported to have a better day after read of listen pleasant news.

12. In some countries the average worker is obliged to retire at the
age of 50, while in others people can work until they are 65 or 70.
Meanwhile, we see some politicians enjoying power well into their
eighties. Clearly, there is little agreement on an appropriate
retirement age. Until what age do you think people should be
encouraged to remain in paid employment?
P1 + Eg: Job performance does not depend on how old a professional is. Employers should stop to monitoring the age growth of the workforce and expend more time checking their work records.
  
P2 + Eg:

TWO PART QUESTION
13. We have been living in the nuclear age now for over half a
century. Since the first atomic bombs were developed, nuclear
technology has provided governments with the ability to totally
destroy the planet. Yet the technology has been put to positive use
as an energy source and in certain areas of medicine. To what
extent is nuclear technology a danger to life on Earth? What are the
benefits and risks associated with its use?
P1 + Eg:
P2 + Eg:
14. Some employers reward members of staff for their exceptional
contribution to the company by giving them extra money. This
practice can act as an incentive for some but may also have a
negative impact on others. To what extent is this style of
management effective? Are there better ways of encouraging
employees to work hard?
P1 + Eg:
P2 + Eg:
15. Most of the world’s poor live in countries where tourism is a
growing industry. The issue is that tourism does not benefit the
poorest. How can the income generated by tourism benefit the
poor? And how can we ensure that tourism does not destroy
traditional cultures and ways of life? Discuss.
P1 + Eg:
P2 + Eg:
16. Over the past fifty years, young people began to gain
status and power lost by old people. What is the cause and is
it a good development or bad?
P1 + Eg:
P2 + Eg:





